During the proposal presentation, one of the questions that came up was what if there are two or more sysadmins on the network.
There seem to be three potential ways to store the app data:
- Local storage - simplest, but only works for personal use
- Local server - requires having a server but keeps all the data inside the local network
  - The app could host its own local webserver, but there would need to be a way to avoid having two webservers from two devices
  - Alternatively, the server could be hosted on another device (e.g. an old PC or Raspberry Pi). More complicated, but could work if supported alongside local storage mode
- Peer-to-peer synchronisation - decentralised, the devices share data directly
  - This does not require hosting a server, but can be trickier to implement well

It is of course also possible to store this data in the cloud, but that would store everyone's data on a single server and require a constant internet connection for app functionality.
As such, it is much better and easier if the data does not leave the local network.


Here are other findings from our research during the last few weeks:
Regarding MAC addresses:
- The first 24 bits of a MAC address map to the device's vendor or manufacturer.
  - An OUI lookup can therefore tell the maker of the product (e.g. Apple or Cisco), from where the device class or possible classes (e.g. Apple makes iPhones and Macs) can be inferred.
- MAC addresses contain a bit that defines whether it is universally or locally administered.
  - A universally administered address is uniquely assigned to the device by the manufacturer.
  - A locally administered address means that the address was set by local software or hardware, which means manual configuration or possibly MAC spoofing.
  - A local MAC address is therefore more suspicious and deserves closer inspection.
- Other data cannot be figured out from the MAC address by itself and requires additional checks and lookups.
  - Although the address alone is not enough to classify a device as suspicious or not, it can be combined with other information to calculate risk

It might be possible to detect if a device is being scanned.
- A network scan sends probes such as ICMP pings or TCP SYN packets to other devices to discover which hosts and ports are active.
- Therefore, a device can detect that it's being scanned by monitoring incoming traffic patterns that match scanning behaviour.
- Monitoring raw packets can detect scans from repeated connection to multiple ports (especially closed ones) or using different protocols by the same source IP.
  - A port scan can be detected by a device sending SYN packets to ports 22, 80, 443, and others in a short timeframe.
  - This cannot be done on Android without root, however traffic to/from the device can be inspected with a VpnService (i.e. having the app act as a local VPN).
  - Even without the full packet capture, it might be possible to detect scanning if there are multiple connection attempts one after another.
- If there are multiple anomalies detected from a single device (connection attempts to several ports or multiple requests in just a few seconds), then it is likely to be a network scan, and an alert can be sent out to the user.

It likely won't be possible to disable other devices' access to the network through the app.
Many home routers do have an interface that can be used to block or restrict client access, but there is no universal API so the method will depend completely on the router.
Additionally, accessing the router's interface would require having the administrator credentials.

Network traffic can be captured to a PCAP file and later used in place of live traffic, so that is a possible idea for the demo.
- The file would contain raw link-layer frames, timestamps, and packet payloads.
- The file can then be opened and processed by the app instead of live traffic.
- File sizes for PCAP files grow very quickly due to what they store, but the recordings could be filtered to only include certain IPs or ports, or truncated